Hey, Brian. Hello, world.
Hey.
Good to be here with you as always.
I hope you are...
I'll save the introductions.
Let's just kick it off, alright?
Okay.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 412, recorded Monday, December 2nd, 2024.
I am Michael Kennedy.
And I am Brian Okken.
This episode is brought to you by us,
especially our Black Friday things.
Visit our website for the Black Friday things.
You have 14 hours.
So make haste.
Make haste.
Hopefully you listen straight away.
And if not, you know, thanks for supporting our work
and check out our courses and things like that.
Links are in the show notes.
You can also get the summary of every episode
delivered directly to you.
Handcrafted, artisanal newsletter,
by Brian Okken here.
So check that out.
And we mentioned this last time,
but we are now Blue Skyians.
We now live in the sky, the blue sky.
In particular, Python Bytes is over there
with the handle python, you know,
at pythonbytes.fm.
And both Brian and I are linked directly from there.
So come follow us.
I have a little extra, extra, extra to follow up on
Blue Sky and Mastodon and Twitter,
xTwitter, whatever.
All of these things.
So I think you will find that interesting.
But right now, I would like to know, Brian,
what you find interesting.
I find interesting that there's a controversy
over loop targets.
This is so inside baseball, I think.
Okay.
So Ned Batchelder wrote a blog post
and apparently a social media post
on Blue Sky, actually,
but about what loop targets are.
So what I'm talking about is a for loop.
So if you say for, like, for x in range 10
or something like that,
then x gets assigned 10, like 0 through 9, right?
So what's the controversy?
The controversy is what you should put in for x.
So in his little code example,
he's got for param,
he's got a parameter dictionary
and there's a query and a page size.
There's no page element,
but we're going to fill that in later.
So what he's doing is he has coded
for params, quote, page in iter tools count.
And what that's going to do
is it's just going to go through
and get 100 things at a time
and put them in a page dictionary
until it's empty.
And there's a break to get out of the loop
once there are no results left.
I think this is kind of clever
and I don't see the problem here.
So the problem is this kind of this params,
this index into the dictionary
and that's where you're putting the loop parameters.
Yeah, this is wild
because I've seen exploding
or expanding tuples into multiple things
like for thing in dictionary,
the items,
you'd say maybe key comma value
in the loop target
and that's perfectly normal.
but assigning a key in the dictionary,
this is new to me.
Really?
Okay.
Yeah.
I'm not necessarily,
I'm neutral on it,
whether or not it should be done,
but I'm just learning about it now.
Okay.
So that they,
in the discussion,
so really what's happening
is there's a,
there's in the discussion,
he talks about it,
that you could have like an extra variable.
You could say page num.
So for page num in iter tools count,
it makes it more clear.
And then you assign the page num to the,
you assign that to the dictionary.
But really you're just using this page num
just as a temporary variable
just to stuff it in there.
So I say,
why not just put,
just to,
just assign it where you're going to use it.
And because this extra line of code,
I,
I don't know,
I'm kind of on the fence
because this is more clear.
I think it's more clear
to use a temporary variable.
It's more readable.
However,
there's an extra line of code.
so it is like that much more,
it's not that much more readable,
I don't think.
And it's not,
and it,
there's that,
if,
if this,
in this short code snippet,
not a big deal,
but in a larger for loop,
you may have more reason
to possibly have something break
because somebody like,
you know,
commented that line out or something
and it suddenly doesn't work.
So anyway,
I'm like,
this is weird.
This is controversy,
but even he,
so he wrote this up
just to talk about it
and ask what,
people think.
And most of the responses
are like,
no,
or one,
I think it's a cool idea
and I think it's a terrible idea.
Anyway,
I guess I'm bringing this up
because I just want to point out
that with for loops,
it's,
there's an implicit assignment
and so you can use that assignment
to assign to wherever
you want to use the variable.
So.
I'm going to make
an observation here.
You tell me what you think.
I believe the people
who are for this
are also fans
of the walrus operator
and people who are against this
are anti-walrus.
Oh,
that might be true.
Right?
It's kind of the same thing.
It's in a for loop,
you're assigning to a variable
and kind of sort of defining
and assigning in a sense,
whereas,
you know,
the walrus operator
does it for if statements,
but it's,
it's like not assign the variable
then test it.
it's like all at once
do the assign and test
or assign in loop.
But there's,
there is already an assign
in the for loop.
It's always assignment,
but.
But is it colon equals?
No,
just kidding.
Is it colon in?
Yeah.
No,
it's interesting.
It does.
Yeah.
It's for loop,
the original walrus operator.
All right.
I'm actually going to come back to loops,
but not yet.
I want to talk about
the standard library.
No,
no,
not the one that you know.
not the one that comes with CPython,
the async standard library.
It's the missing toolbox
for an async world.
Did you know we're living
in an async world?
I feel like a little
Madonna is rocking in my,
is that Madonna?
I don't know.
Yeah.
So what are the problems?
It's if you go and look
at many of the things
that you know and love,
say iter tools
or funk tools,
those things have not been
kind of blowing my mind
because they could be,
have not been updated
to support async.
Okay.
So when you do like
functools,
you know,
say a decorator
at functools.lrucache,
that is perfect
for a synchronous function.
It doesn't work
for an async one.
And why do I think
that it should work for it?
Because just a couple
weeks ago,
I covered my
chameleon flask
decorator for templates.
And I,
in a hundred lines of code,
I wrote something
that decorates
and operates
on both sync
and async functions.
So surely,
the people who create
async.io
could probably,
like,
write a multi-operator
decorator deal.
But,
they don't.
And I have no idea
if there's any intention
ever for them
to do so.
So what this is,
is it's kind of like
a clone of those things.
Not totally.
It also has some
other nice features.
But it's like
an async version
of those.
So if you have
an async function,
you want to apply
an LRU cache to it,
well,
go grab this bad boy.
So it's got
a bunch of built-ins
for things like
asynchronous zip sum
or even converting
to list.
It has functools
that supports
things like I talked
about LRU cache.
And if you look at it,
it looks a whole lot
like you would imagine.
It has a max size.
It has typed
and so on.
But it operates
on awaitables
and it returns
an LRU async callable,
something you can
await like you should
the function,
rather than just
a coroutine that is,
I don't know,
where you cache the coroutine.
I don't know.
It doesn't make
a lot of sense.
So this is what
this is about.
It's got a bunch
of things like that.
It has the built-ins.
It's got the functools
libraries for iterators,
async caches,
attributes,
the context lib
and async context lib.
So I can do things
like add
async decorator
and context
that drives
from a context decorator
and you can
basically a short circuit
the implementation,
a simple implementation
of aenter
and aexit
and so on.
It has a heap queue
which implements
Python's heap queue
but for async
which is pretty cool.
So if you want
to merge and stuff
and then it has
some extra tools.
I don't really,
I haven't done enough
with this to know
whether this is useful,
how I would use it
so stick with it.
Anyway,
it has things like
borrow
where you can borrow
an async iterator
to prevent it
from closing.
I don't know about that.
You got scoped ones
but this one
is really nice.
I've written this code before
and it's not easy
to get completely right.
It has a thing
that you can just call
async standard lib.sync
giving it
async function
and it'll just,
sorry,
the way around.
Given async function
it will turn it
into an async function
that you can await
if you need to.
That's cool.
Yeah.
Or you can give it
an async one
as well
and it doesn't really care.
I think it adapts
but,
so,
a bunch of stuff
going on here.
If you're like,
ah,
there's a bunch
of these cool built-ins
that I'm used to
and they don't work
with async,
well,
check out the
async standard lib.
Very cool.
I think,
it seems like
we have
typed Python
and non-typed Python
and now we have
async Python
and synchronous Python
and then we're going
to have
free-threaded
and non-free-threaded
Python?
We're going to have
typed async
free-threaded Python.
Yeah.
And every other
combinatorial possibility
there,
it's going to be nuts.
Yeah.
But I think this is a cool one.
It's not super popular.
Let me go back
to it
and see what its
GitHub stars are.
But it's kind of
one of those things
that's like,
yeah,
this is definitely worth it.
I don't know.
so it has some,
oh,
here we go.
No,
don't say.
240.
So it's starting
to pick up some speed,
but I think it's,
it's real simple.
It's like the kind of thing
that's either going to work
or not work.
So if it's useful for you,
go for it.
Nice.
Yeah,
it's cool.
I was going to talk about,
I haven't had breakfast yet,
so I was going to talk about some,
maybe getting a bagel.
Do you want a bagel?
Okay.
Yeah,
I love bagels.
Long as it got everything,
we're good.
Everything bagel.
Let's go.
Well,
I am taking a look at a project
called Enhanced Jack.
It's,
it's called Bagels
from Enhanced Jack.
Who's Enhanced Jack's?
It's Jack's Tam.
Cool.
Aspiring student studying,
oh,
no,
university student.
Cool.
Anyway,
why am I bringing up bagels?
Well,
bagels is,
is kind of a fun little
expense tracker,
but I think it's a great,
it's a great example of using textual
for something that,
you know,
people probably could sink their teeth
into pretty easy.
So it's a expense tracker
with multiple accounts
using textual.
I've tried it out.
It's really pretty easy.
There's a bunch of stuff
I like about this
and I'm bringing it up.
Not really because
I think everybody needs
an expense tracker,
but I think a lot of people
look for a starter,
like a starter project
to possibly tweak
and make their own.
And I think this might be
kind of a fun thing
for people to look at.
A few things about it.
I like it that it's a,
in the command line,
it's a textual app,
but it's also the install instructions.
I love seeing this.
It's starting to use
the uv tool install
so that you can just,
just run bagels from anywhere.
It's the way.
This is the way.
And it's so fast to get started.
The,
there's quite a,
I also like that the project is,
it's pretty new,
but it's,
yeah,
it's just like a few weeks started,
but the,
there's already like some features included.
Features included is great.
And then also how to,
how to development setup is,
is listed and how to,
no,
it doesn't talk about how to run tests,
but that's all right.
It's running pytest,
of course.
But then a roadmap of,
of like sort of things
that they'd like to add to it.
It's heavily inspired by posting.
So anyway,
just a fun little project.
The,
the tests are in place.
like it's not a complete coverage yet,
but it's a new project.
if you want to help out.
I think it's a good thing to people to check out.
Also,
you know,
I've always wanted to write my own little expense tracker.
And so this is a good start for,
even if it doesn't do everything I wanted to do,
to take up the code base and maybe play with it.
And learn some stuff.
It's also,
it's written,
it's using,
I can't remember.
It was using,
a,
a postcard,
like a SQLAlchemy.
Also,
if you,
if you want to have a,
a simple small project that uses SQLAlchemy to learn that,
be a good one to take a look at.
Awesome.
Yeah,
that's really cool.
And we covered post,
postling,
post thing.
What was it called?
You covered it.
The post,
the posting.
Yeah.
Little app that was written.
Posting.
What was that?
Remember,
that was the,
the post man alternative for the terminal written,
written in textual,
which is cool.
Yeah.
Which is like a dream to work with.
It's a,
it's a fun one.
So,
yeah.
Very nice.
I want to,
since you brought it this up,
I'll,
I'll throw this out here.
Not super necessarily relevant,
but I recently ran across maybe.co.
Okay.
Almost a company,
but it lost the M along the way.
Anyway,
it's a fully open source OS for your personal finances.
Running on Docker,
if you want to do self hosting,
keep all of your data private instead of like sending off to
Intuit or somewhere that it probably doesn't belong.
So anyway,
people can check that out.
That's kind of cool.
It's not an endorsement.
Haven't used it,
but kind of thinking about it.
I would rather bring it full circle.
We began with loops.
Let us end with loops.
Isn't that perfect for a full circle?
They go in circles,
don't they?
Yeah.
So this is the early days sort of thing,
but Giovanni,
who is the creator of the Emmet framework and more relevant to us,
the Grannion async sync Rust based web server that powers Python bytes
and other things that we have,
is creating this thing that is an alternative to uv loop.
So uv loop is a,
I think it's based on the lib uv.
I can't remember exactly the origins of it,
but it's a loop that you can plug in as an alternative for the asyncio event loop implementation.
Okay.
So why would you do that?
Well,
it turns out that you can optimize some of the juggling of the little tasks.
So if you have like three tasks,
one is call the website,
one is talk the database,
one is write a file or whatever.
Don't do anything.
The built on one's fine.
But if you have a million tasks and you're breaking up into little tiny pieces and they're jumping all over,
like that juggling could be faster with uv loop.
And I think that's where we're going to see it go with our loop.
So our loop is an async event loop implemented in Rust and it's coming along.
It is a work in progress and not ready.
But the reason I bring it up kind of early in its life here is it's a really cool option.
We've seen how significant the improvements for other Rust things like Pydantic and uv have been.
And so if you're passionate about this and you want to have maybe a little influence before it gets fully baked,
as this thing's coming to life, you know, jump in.
The way you use it is just like uv.
Super easy.
Just before you do async things, you just say async io.setEventLoopPolicy,
which is a factory, I'm thinking.
Kind of a factory method more.
I don't know, whatever.
And you just give it rloop.eventLoopPolicy.
And that means anytime code creates a new event loop,
it's going to be using the factory method from rloop rather than the built-in one.
Off you go.
Nice.
Cool.
Yeah.
Cool, cool.
Well, that's it for our items, right?
I think so, yeah.
I think it is.
Extras?
What do you think?
Yeah, I have a few.
Hit it.
Want me to jump in?
Jump in.
I am, I've had a lot of stuff going on in personal life lately,
and trying to fit everything into my life is sometimes difficult.
So I've been reading, reading, reading in quotes,
listening to the audio book for 4,000 weeks,
Time Management for Mortals.
It's a book by Oliver Berkman.
And I'm listening to it for the second time now in the last couple weeks.
I just picked it up a week or so ago.
But I'm really enjoying it.
And it's more of a, you can't get everything done, but that's okay.
Just how to be okay with the limitations of life.
So very refreshing time management book.
It's also got some practical advice too.
But it's great.
So I highly, highly recommend that.
It's advent of, advent of code time.
And I've heard of the, so I've definitely heard of the advent of code,
but the advent of code.com.
Very cool.
A lot of people do that every year for,
in December to do little code snippets every year.
But today I came across Adrian Roselli's development advent calendars for 2024.
So if advent of code isn't quite what up your alley,
there's a whole bunch here.
There's HTML hell advent calendar.
There's a whole bunch of code,
code-based advent calendars here.
So none of them Python specific.
There's a Perl specific, but C# advent of cyber.
Just quite a few fun different calendars.
CSS, if you wanted to learn CSS.
Maybe there's CSS.
The Joomla advent calendar.
You too can host it.
So, yeah.
And apparently it's gone back.
He's got links back to 2010.
So it's fun.
Wow.
Yeah.
If you get your homework done early,
you can do more advent of calendars.
Yeah.
I don't.
So I tried advent of code a couple years ago.
And then I just realized that like in my free time,
I'm doing so much coding at work,
side hustles and everything,
that I kind of want to do things like draw and paint and cook
and things like that when I'm doing other stuff.
So anyway.
I hear you.
I'm the same.
I already do a lot of programming.
Even in my spare time, I do more programming.
Yeah.
And so I don't need extra ones,
but I know it helps people,
especially people who are trying to learn a topic.
It can kind of force you if you don't have a way to apply it.
And today is December 2nd, Monday,
traditionally Cyber Monday.
And it is the last day for the Black Friday sale,
turkey sale for the pythontest.com courses.
However, and so I'll take off the automatic.
But if you hit me,
if you're listening to this later,
you know, close-ish to December 2nd,
direct message me on Blue Sky and I'll hook you up.
So anyway.
Blue Sky, that's a good transition.
All right.
Also Black Friday at Talk Python.
So talkpython.fm/Black Friday,
20 to 50% off the course library.
Nice logo there.
The image is great.
Thanks.
That's pure CSS, by the way.
That's some mad glow in CSS.
Yeah, it's cool.
Yeah.
Awesome.
All right.
So we talk Blue Sky.
So I just, you know,
last week when I finished producing the show
and I published it onto the internet,
typically go to the social networks
and I'll do a quick post.
Hey, new episode's out.
Enjoy it if you want.
This one had a little guitar solo at the end,
which was super fun.
And so it said,
latest episode out,
411, TLS client,
hello, guitar solo was the name.
And I published that.
And I published it at the same time
with the same text to X,
Fostadon, Mastadon,
and Blue Sky.
And I just thought,
huh,
I wonder what the engagement looks like.
Because I don't know how you've been feeling,
Brian,
I feel like people,
I tried and tried to get folks to go to Mastodon
and like some,
some people came,
came along,
but a bunch just didn't,
you know,
they were just,
you would go back to X
and you would just see them all talking there.
I'm like,
man,
I don't know.
And I'm not necessarily super against X.
I'm a little bit against it,
but I'm not a lot,
but it's just,
it's become not very practical
as you'll see in just a second.
Not very useful.
So,
you know,
if you want to go talk to yourself in a closet,
it's awesome.
If you want to talk to other people,
less so.
Anyway,
so my,
my test here,
this is a non-scientific test
that I put out there.
What is the interaction level per platform?
And what you have to keep in mind
before I tell you guys this,
there's a dramatic difference
in number of followers,
subscribers,
whatever they're called
at that particular location.
Okay.
So basically take the numbers,
divide by the number of followers
and consider that
like the amount of interaction.
The reason I tell you this is
you may want to come follow us
and join us on Blue Sky,
but that's,
that's a bit of a getting ahead.
So check this out.
So over on X,
we have 27,000 followers.
Okay.
Posting this exact message
one week ago,
we got eight likes
and two retweets.
Reposts.
Boosts.
Name it,
whatever.
Yeah.
So I don't know what that is.
two divided by 27,000,
but it's a small percentage.
Okay.
Fostadon.
Mastodon, right?
It's not Fostadon.
Mastodon,
because it's across all,
all the Fediverse.
Same post.
Identical.
Here we have 3,000.
Let me see.
3,100 followers.
Okay.
So yeah,
that's great.
But this is
almost nine times less.
Something like that,
right?
It's many,
many less times,
but four boosts,
which is not out of control,
honestly,
but it's,
and two favorites,
two likes.
But as a ratio,
it's still a lot more
because multiply by nine,
right?
Yeah.
Blue Sky,
which we've been there
a couple of days,
weeks,
something like that.
we only have a,
somebody hover,
different hover targets,
750 followers.
Yeah.
Follow some blue sky.
Get over there.
Yeah.
Anyway,
we have 16 likes
and two reposts
and a quote post
and then some conversation
about it.
And that's
30 times less followers
and more engagement
than both platforms.
So,
anyway,
I,
y'all take that
for what it is.
I just thought
that was an interesting experiment.
What do you think,
Brian?
Yeah,
I'm finding,
I'm finding Blue Sky
more interactive.
I've got about
this approximate
same numbers
on Fostadon
or Mastodon
and,
and Blue Sky
and I'll,
I'll get like twice
as much interaction on,
I mean,
approximate gut feel
twice as much interaction
on Blue Sky
as I do on,
on Mastodon.
Yeah.
So,
yeah.
Yeah,
and I'm not saying this
to,
bag on some
social network
or try to promote
other too much.
I'm like,
people are trying
to find their community.
I think right now
this is like
where the community is
and if you go here,
you can go to,
to my account
and go to the starter pack
and there's the Python
personalities
and you can follow
a bunch of us.
The onboarding experience
is way better.
The,
the onboarding experience
for Mastodon
still feels like
it's too many decisions
right at once.
And then you,
it's like if you wanted
to play games
on Linux.
You probably could.
Yeah.
And I'm,
by the way,
I'm,
I'm no longer on X.
So don't notify me there.
Yeah.
Sounds good.
All right.
A couple of other
real quick things
on episode 277,
I believe,
I don't have my show notes up,
but I'm pretty sure
that was the number.
Way back when
I talked about
strnum,
string enumeration,
which is a thing
that basically
backports
the string enum
from Python 3.11
so it can be used
in other places.
It's super cool.
It's even better
than the built-in one,
by the way.
So I can have,
I can say,
give me a string enum
and derive a class
from that.
That becomes
an enumeration
where you say
that thing dot,
but then you have
the fields in your set
equals auto, auto, auto, auto,
and it'll actually
set it to the text
of whatever the variable is.
If you refactor,
rename it,
it will apply
that refactoring
to the string version
and the variable version
of it.
And you can even
do things like
use a lowercase
or an uppercase one
as the base class,
a lowercase strnum,
and that will
make the string version
lowercase,
even if you have
a different,
a different reference
representation
for the variable names.
Anyway,
why did I do this?
Because on my
ListMonk little client,
somebody came and said,
why doesn't this work
on anything less
than 3.11?
I'm like,
because it uses stringenum
from 3.11.
So I'm like,
you know what?
I'll just,
I'll just derive
from the other class,
add that as a dependency.
I already had dependencies.
That's one more small one.
And guess what?
Now it supports
older versions of Python.
I stopped it at 3.10
because I want
nice type hints.
I don't want
ugly type hints.
You're nicer than me, man.
I'm like,
it doesn't support it.
So it doesn't,
because I don't want
to support it.
Yeah, but then I was curious,
like, well,
why doesn't it?
And I remember
we talked about this thing,
and if I literally
just change a base class
and don't do anything else,
that was pretty low effort.
So, you know,
it took like five minutes,
right?
All right.
Yeah.
So anyway,
all right,
that's it for my extras.
Shall we close it out
with a joke?
Yeah,
let's do something funny.
Man,
I know.
We were just talking,
we just experienced
a food holiday
in the United States
last week
with Thanksgiving and all.
And I hope everyone's
was good if you celebrate it.
However,
sometimes there's
a lot of food prep,
and it can be,
it can be hard,
right?
It can be hard.
like,
you're shopping,
you're chopping,
all of these things.
So here is a programmer
or just a computer user,
really,
who has a grocery list.
And the grocery list
says eggs,
corn,
tomatoes,
onions,
rice,
milk.
And they decide
they don't want the onions.
So they highlight it,
and they hit
Control-X,
and a tear forms
in their eye
because of course
it does when you cut onions.
That's really funny.
It's pretty good, right?
I mean,
yeah,
it's good.
I don't know why.
It's cheesy.
It's a little cheesy.
A little cheesy.
Yeah.
I'll do one more for us
that's straight out
of the comments
because Cohen
did a pretty good one.
When we were talking
about the loop targets,
it says,
how about this
for putting two
controversial ideas together?
Sum of sum of numbers
plus X
for numbers of zero
in numbers
if X colon
equal numbers
squared
is such and such.
Oh my goodness.
This is
a lot of stuff going.
I said,
here's a job interview
for you.
Job interview question.
If you answer it
with a straight face,
you fail.
No,
that's good.
Yeah.
If you think that's all right,
nope,
you're out.
I don't know.
Not seriously,
but as a joke,
it's pretty good.
Yeah,
it's job interview stuff.
Job interviews are tough.
I know a lot of people
are going through that now.
so.
Yeah.
Well,
you know,
the control X part
and also the job interview
might bring a tear to the heights.
I don't know.
I haven't,
I haven't applied for a job in,
well,
since the nineties.
However,
which is insane.
That is insane,
it's actually insane.
But,
because all my job transitions
have been like,
hey,
you'd be awesome.
Like,
why don't you consider working for,
it was more of the other way around,
you know,
which is pretty fortunate,
but it sounds.
like your resume has like,
like,
lawn mowing on it still
or something.
Exactly.
I mean,
I work for companies.
They just reached out to me
and said,
would you consider working for us?
And then I know,
but you probably didn't have to,
you haven't probably had to update
your resume for a long time.
Yeah.
My LinkedIn is like,
I'm,
I've had some experience
at a pizza place
and I've done lawn mowing.
So,
no,
it's good.
No,
but anyway,
I was just going to say,
I think it's probably pretty brutal.
You've got to,
you know,
pass the AI gauntlets
and all sorts of weird business
and take home quizzes.
And I can see why
there would be tears.
Tears.
Yeah.
But not for listening to this show.
Thank you everyone for coming.
Thank you,
Brian.
See y'all later.
Bye.
Thank you.